<!--
This content in between the tags below is replaced with the embedded documentation using `gomarkdoc`.
See https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc for more.
-->

<!-- gomarkdoc:embed:start -->

<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# pathlib

```go
import "github.com/jeftadlvw/go-pathlib"
```

Package pathlib contains every functionality for go\-pathlib. It's a one\-file library that can be used in other projects by using Go's package system or by placing the source code file itself into the source tree.

## Index

- [func IsCaseSensitiveFs\(p \*Path\) \(bool, error\)](<#IsCaseSensitiveFs>)
- [type Path](<#Path>)
  - [func NewCwd\(\) \(\*Path, error\)](<#NewCwd>)
  - [func NewHome\(\) \(\*Path, error\)](<#NewHome>)
  - [func NewPath\(path string\) \*Path](<#NewPath>)
  - [func PathFromParts\(parts ...string\) \*Path](<#PathFromParts>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Absolute\(\) \(\*Path, error\)](<#Path.Absolute>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) AbsoluteTo\(o \*Path\) \(\*Path, error\)](<#Path.AbsoluteTo>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) BContains\(pattern string\) bool](<#Path.BContains>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Base\(\) string](<#Path.Base>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Contains\(pattern string\) \(bool, error\)](<#Path.Contains>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Copy\(\) \*Path](<#Path.Copy>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Equals\(other \*Path\) bool](<#Path.Equals>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) EqualsCi\(other \*Path\) bool](<#Path.EqualsCi>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) EqualsFS\(other \*Path\) bool](<#Path.EqualsFS>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) EqualsString\(other string\) bool](<#Path.EqualsString>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) EqualsStringCi\(other string\) bool](<#Path.EqualsStringCi>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Exists\(\) bool](<#Path.Exists>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Extension\(\) string](<#Path.Extension>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Extensions\(\) \[\]string](<#Path.Extensions>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Glob\(pattern string\) \(\[\]\*Path, error\)](<#Path.Glob>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) IsAbsolute\(\) bool](<#Path.IsAbsolute>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) IsDir\(\) bool](<#Path.IsDir>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) IsFile\(\) bool](<#Path.IsFile>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) IsRelative\(\) bool](<#Path.IsRelative>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Join\(paths ...\*Path\) \*Path](<#Path.Join>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) JoinStrings\(paths ...string\) \*Path](<#Path.JoinStrings>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) MarshalText\(\) \(text \[\]byte, err error\)](<#Path.MarshalText>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) MinimalStem\(\) string](<#Path.MinimalStem>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Parent\(\) \*Path](<#Path.Parent>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Parts\(\) \[\]string](<#Path.Parts>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) RelativeTo\(o \*Path\) \(\*Path, error\)](<#Path.RelativeTo>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Resolve\(\) \(\*Path, error\)](<#Path.Resolve>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Root\(\) string](<#Path.Root>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Split\(\) \(\*Path, string\)](<#Path.Split>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) Stem\(\) string](<#Path.Stem>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) String\(\) string](<#Path.String>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) ToPosix\(\) string](<#Path.ToPosix>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) UnmarshalText\(text \[\]byte\) error](<#Path.UnmarshalText>)
  - [func \(p \*Path\) WithName\(name string\) \*Path](<#Path.WithName>)


<a name="IsCaseSensitiveFs"></a>
## func IsCaseSensitiveFs

```go
func IsCaseSensitiveFs(p *Path) (bool, error)
```

IsCaseSensitiveFs returns whether a given path is on a case\-sensitive filesystem.

Currently, this function checks the sensitivity using the path's base.

<a name="Path"></a>
## type Path

Path is a struct that represents a filesystem path.

Create a new instance using NewPath\(\). Other constructor functions are prefixed with 'New'.

```go
type Path struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="NewCwd"></a>
### func NewCwd

```go
func NewCwd() (*Path, error)
```

NewCwd returns a new Path instance pointing to the application's current working directory.

This function utilizes os.Getwd.

<a name="NewHome"></a>
### func NewHome

```go
func NewHome() (*Path, error)
```

NewHome returns a new Path instance pointing to the user's home directory.

This function utilizes os.UserHomeDir.

<a name="NewPath"></a>
### func NewPath

```go
func NewPath(path string) *Path
```

NewPath is the constructor function for a new Path struct instance. The passed path string is automatically cleaned and ready for further use.

<a name="PathFromParts"></a>
### func PathFromParts

```go
func PathFromParts(parts ...string) *Path
```

PathFromParts combines passed parts into a new Path.

<a name="Path.Absolute"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Absolute

```go
func (p *Path) Absolute() (*Path, error)
```

Absolute returns an absolute representation of this Path. If the Path is relative, it will be joined with the current working directory.

This function utilizes filepath.Abs.

<a name="Path.AbsoluteTo"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) AbsoluteTo

```go
func (p *Path) AbsoluteTo(o *Path) (*Path, error)
```

AbsoluteTo returns an absolute representation of this Path towards another. If the Path is relative, it will be joined with the provided Path, else this Path is returned.

Requires the other Path to be absolute.

<a name="Path.BContains"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) BContains

```go
func (p *Path) BContains(pattern string) bool
```

BContains returns whether the passed pattern exists within this Path's directory. It wraps Contains and returns the boolean success value.

<a name="Path.Base"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Base

```go
func (p *Path) Base() string
```

Base returns the last element of this Path.

This function utilizes filepath.Base.

<a name="Path.Contains"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Contains

```go
func (p *Path) Contains(pattern string) (bool, error)
```

Contains returns whether the passed pattern exist within this Path's directory.

This function utilizes filepath.Glob.

<a name="Path.Copy"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Copy

```go
func (p *Path) Copy() *Path
```

Copy creates a copy of this Path.

Fresh out of the oven, just for you.

<a name="Path.Equals"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Equals

```go
func (p *Path) Equals(other *Path) bool
```

Equals returns whether this and another Path are structurally the same. It respects case sensitivity.

<a name="Path.EqualsCi"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) EqualsCi

```go
func (p *Path) EqualsCi(other *Path) bool
```

EqualsCi returns whether this and another Path are structurally the same. It ignores case sensitivity.

<a name="Path.EqualsFS"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) EqualsFS

```go
func (p *Path) EqualsFS(other *Path) bool
```

EqualsFS returns whether this and another Path are the same on the filesystem. The evaluation also considers filesystem case sensitivity.

<a name="Path.EqualsString"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) EqualsString

```go
func (p *Path) EqualsString(other string) bool
```

EqualsString returns whether the passed string matches this Path.

This function converts the passed string to a Path object and calls Equals.

<a name="Path.EqualsStringCi"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) EqualsStringCi

```go
func (p *Path) EqualsStringCi(other string) bool
```

EqualsStringCi returns whether the passed string matches this Path. it ignores case sensitivity.

<a name="Path.Exists"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Exists

```go
func (p *Path) Exists() bool
```

Exists returns whether this Path exists.

<a name="Path.Extension"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Extension

```go
func (p *Path) Extension() string
```

Extension returns the last filename extension of this Path. The prefixed dot is included.

<a name="Path.Extensions"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Extensions

```go
func (p *Path) Extensions() []string
```

Extensions returns all the Path's extensions. Prefixed dots are included.

If the file starts with a '.' \(which is a common on unix based operating systems\), the first part is ignored.

<a name="Path.Glob"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Glob

```go
func (p *Path) Glob(pattern string) ([]*Path, error)
```

Glob returns all paths matching the given pattern within this Path's directory.

This function utilizes filepath.Glob. It ignores IO errors.

<a name="Path.IsAbsolute"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) IsAbsolute

```go
func (p *Path) IsAbsolute() bool
```

IsAbsolute returns whether this Path is absolute.

On non\-Windows operating systems, the Windows path root \(e.g. 'C:\\'\) is not considered a file root but as a regular \(relative\) path element. Thus, this function would return false.

This function utilizes filepath.IsAbs.

<a name="Path.IsDir"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) IsDir

```go
func (p *Path) IsDir() bool
```

IsDir returns whether this Path is an existing directory.

<a name="Path.IsFile"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) IsFile

```go
func (p *Path) IsFile() bool
```

IsFile returns whether this Path is an existing file.

<a name="Path.IsRelative"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) IsRelative

```go
func (p *Path) IsRelative() bool
```

IsRelative returns whether this Path is relative.

This function returns the inverse of IsAbsolute.

<a name="Path.Join"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Join

```go
func (p *Path) Join(paths ...*Path) *Path
```

Join returns a new Path with all passed Path structs joined together. Use JoinStrings to join strings with this Path.

This function utilizes filepath.Join.

<a name="Path.JoinStrings"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) JoinStrings

```go
func (p *Path) JoinStrings(paths ...string) *Path
```

JoinStrings returns a new Path with all passed strings joined together.

This function utilizes filepath.Join.

<a name="Path.MarshalText"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) MarshalText

```go
func (p *Path) MarshalText() (text []byte, err error)
```

MarshalText marshals this Path into a byte array. Implements the encoding.TextMarshaler interface.

<a name="Path.MinimalStem"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) MinimalStem

```go
func (p *Path) MinimalStem() string
```

MinimalStem returns the last element of this Path without all extensions.

<a name="Path.Parent"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Parent

```go
func (p *Path) Parent() *Path
```

Parent returns a copy of this Path in the parent directory.

This function utilizes filepath.Dir.

<a name="Path.Parts"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Parts

```go
func (p *Path) Parts() []string
```

Parts returns all single parts of the Path. It uses filepath.Separator to split the path string.

<a name="Path.RelativeTo"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) RelativeTo

```go
func (p *Path) RelativeTo(o *Path) (*Path, error)
```

RelativeTo returns this Path relative to another.

This function utilizes filepath.Rel.

<a name="Path.Resolve"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Resolve

```go
func (p *Path) Resolve() (*Path, error)
```

Resolve resolves all symbolic links. If this Path is relative, the result will be relative to the current directory, unless one of the components is an absolute symbolic link.

Resolve requires this Path to exist.

This function utilizes filepath.EvalSymlinks.

<a name="Path.Root"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Root

```go
func (p *Path) Root() string
```

Root returns the first part of the path. On absolute paths this is the filesystem root, on relative paths all parts up to the first non\-'..' part are included.

On Unix\-based operating systems, the Windows path root \(e.g. 'C:\\'\) is not considered a filepath root. However, it will be returned as a root because 'C:\\' or 'C:/' is seen as the root of a relative path.

<a name="Path.Split"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Split

```go
func (p *Path) Split() (*Path, string)
```

Split splits this Path into its parent and base.

<a name="Path.Stem"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) Stem

```go
func (p *Path) Stem() string
```

Stem returns the last element of this Path without the extension.

<a name="Path.String"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) String

```go
func (p *Path) String() string
```

String returns this Path as a string.

<a name="Path.ToPosix"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) ToPosix

```go
func (p *Path) ToPosix() string
```

ToPosix returns a string representation with forward slashes.

<a name="Path.UnmarshalText"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) UnmarshalText

```go
func (p *Path) UnmarshalText(text []byte) error
```

UnmarshalText unmarshalls any byte array into a Path type. Implements the encoding.TextUnmarshaler interface.

<a name="Path.WithName"></a>
### func \(\*Path\) WithName

```go
func (p *Path) WithName(name string) *Path
```

WithName returns this Path but with another base.

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)


<!-- gomarkdoc:embed:end -->
